63325 Add more options to start cicd deployment (#7859)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: umbraco-cloud/build-and-customize-your-solution/handle-deployments-and-environments/umbraco-cicd/samplecicdpipeline/README.md

If you are using the old CI/CD samples that target V1 endpoint, you can only target the left-most environment.

{% endhint %}

If you are setting up CI/CD Flow for the first time, you should skip ahead to the section about ["Sample pipelines"](#sample-pipelines).

## Advanced configuration

The "Advanced configuration" section expands the capabilities of CI/CD Flow.

{% hint style="warning" %}

This setting is for advanced users.

Enabling "Deploy to any target" will drastically change the deployment workflow between environments in the Cloud Portal for the affected project.

{% endhint %}

### Deploy to any target

By default, CI/CD flow only allows deployments to the left-most or the flexible environment. With the "Deploy to any target" toggle you now have control to enable CI/CD Flow deployments to all your environments. 

<figure><img src="../../../../.gitbook/assets/cicd-advanced-configuration.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>"Umbraco CI/CD Flow - Advanced configuration" section showing the enabled "Deploy to any target".</p></figcaption></figure>

> When the setting is enabled, we will disable the ability to deploy between environments through the Cloud Portal. All deployments should now be handled by you and your CI/CD setup.

Reviewer: Here you're saying "by your CI/CD setup", where in other places it's describes as "the CI/CD Flow" 🤔 
It's the same feature, right? Or does it make sense to distinguish between when any target is enabled vs when it's not? 

```suggestion
When the setting is enabled, the ability to deploy between environments through the Cloud Portal is disabled. All deployments should now be handled by you and your CI/CD setup.
```

- Adding or removing an environment will in most cases write to each affected environment. 
- Auto upgrades on Cloud also create commits.
- Adding or editing Document types in the backoffice (or other work that changes schema) on the cloud environment will also create commits. 

If changes outside CI/CD have been applied to an environment, the environment card will indicate how far ahead it is of the latest deployment.

<figure><img src="../../../../.gitbook/assets/cicd-environment-card-deployment-with-changes.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Example of an environment card showing the current deployed artifact, but with a change committed to the environment after the deployment.</p></figcaption></figure>

You are in control of deploying to all environments through your CI/CD setup. 

Next step after enabling "Deploy to any target": [Advanced Setup: Deploy to multiple targets](./advanced-multiple-targets.md).

Disabling "Deploy to any target" will change the UI back to Umbraco Clouds original environments overview. Bringing back Deploy-buttons and pending changes on the environments cards.

{% hint style="info" %}
#### A note about disabling "Deploy to any target"

> When you use CI/CD to deploy to the left-most environment and the Portal to deploy changes between environments, the environments are aligned. Following the left-to-right deployment flow they will eventually have the same commits. This connection and alignment between environment is utilized by the Portal to keeps track of Pending changes between environments.

Reviewer: First, I need to understand if this particular paragraph is related to when "Deploy to any target" is **disabled** (not in use). That's what I understand when reading on, but it's not that clear from this first paragraph. 

I'd suggest rewriting a bit:

```suggestion
When "Deploy to any target" is disabled (default) and the Portal is used to deploy changes between environments, the environments are aligned. Following the left-to-right deployment flow, they will eventually have the same commits. This connection and alignment between environments is utilized by the Portal to keep track of Pending changes between environments.
```
